For this last lesson of the chapter, we're
going to look
at how to create iterators for other
sequence types in python.
So we're gonna start this program, we're
gonna call it otheriters.py.
So the first thing we're gonna do is we're
going to build a range.
So we'll write numbers equals range.
One to ten, which means we have to go one
to 11.
Not that we're going to iterate over that
whole range.
But just demonstrate how to create an
iterator for a range and to be
quite honest it's no different than we've
done for any other type of objects.
So if I wanna create the iterator I'll
write IT equals iter numbers.
And now if I want to see the first number
in the range, I just type print next IT.
Let's save the file.
Then we'll run it.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
And
my first number in the range is one and we
can
continue on, just like we would with any
other sequence type.
So ranges work exactly like a list or
dictionary, for example.
Lets look at one more example.
In Python we have the ability to import
libraries that allow
us additional functionality than what is
found with just the regular.
Built in Python functions, for example.
One of the commands I want to work with
will return a sequence of data, and it's
called P Open and what it does is,
it allows you to run a operating system
command.
Like a directory and then it will return
that data into an object and that object
iterable.
So what I'd like to do is we're going to
first
import the library, import OS, that gives
us access to P Open.
Then I wanna say files is equal to
OS.popen,
and then we provide the command that we
want to.
Run.
In this case I want to do a directory
of all the python programs in the current
working directory.
So, I'm going to type, dir star dot py.
And that will return all files that have
the py extension.
So, then once I do that I can create an
iterator on that object, just like so.
And then I can display the objects in that
sequence.
Now, the problem is, is that there's gonna
be a lot of
blank lines because, if you'll notice what
happens when we get a directory.
Let me run that for you real quick.
Lets scroll back up to the top.
You'll see that there's a couple lines
of just basic information about the hard
drive.
And then we have a little heading for the
directory
of C colon python three zero and then the
files.
So I probably want to display one, two,
three, four, five,
six or seven lines just to get the first
files to appear.
Let's go back to the code.
Let's copy this, then let's paste it in a
few times.
Let's say six or seven times.
And I could have a loop to do this.
If I was going to do it in a loop, I might
as
well do it in a four loop, which I could
very easily do.
Let's look at that first.
I'll tell you what.
Let's erase this.
We'll come back to it.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now let's run this code.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Another
screen.
There are my files.
And so what I did was, I ran a system
command, and then used the for-loop to
display the data.
So now let's do it with an explicit
iterator instead, we'll put
those back in, and that's not going to
show the whole directory.
Lets clear the screen, and so there we get
our first view.
You notice it is putting a blank line so
we can
fix that by adding, end equals empty
string to our display.
But I'm not gonna add that to all these
lines.
So here we've seen two other sequences of
data that are iterable, in other
words we can create an explicit iterator
and traverse through the sequence using
that iterator.
And with that, we're ready to move on to
the exercise for this chapter, where I'm
going to demonstrate how to use iterators
with
yet one more data structure, and that's
the tuple.